README.md, before:




# LTMDF

A python module to create larger than memory data frames for **pandas**, written in **Cython** for optimal performance.

(**L**arger **T**han **M**emory **D**ata **F**rame)

## ltmdf.DataFrame

### Example I: Reading Csv
```python
with ltmdf.DataFrame() as df:
	df.from_csv("Long_Csv.txt", 1000000, ["time", "Value"])
	df.add_padding(2)
```
##### from_csv(path, chunk_len, columns, **kwargs)
 1. `"Long_Csv.txt"` Csv File
 2. `1000000` Rows per chunk
 3. `["time", "value"]` Column names
 4. `**kwargs` Kwargs to pass to the pandas read function
 ##### add_padding(...)

 1. `2` How many rows of padding

Creates an environment in the run location, to store the larger than memory Dataframe. After that functions can be run on the entire DF

### Why to use Padding
To avoid NaN when using e.g. `diff` add padding to a DF. It adds the next rows of the df and ignores these after processing

### Example II: Running commands on a DF
```python
def get_delta_time(df):
	df["delta time"] = df["time"].diff()
	return df

with ltmdf.DataFrame() as df:
	(...)
	df.add_padding(1)
	df.run(get_delta_time, log_progess=True)
```
##### run(func, log_progess=False, *args, **kwargs)
`get_delta_time` Function with a minimum of 1 parameter (the df) that gets called for each chunk of the large df
`log_progess=True` Prints the current progess (e.g. 20/45)
`*args` Args to pass to function
`**kwargs` Kwargs to pass to function

### Warning
If you have made changes to the df in the run method (e.g. `get_delta_time`) don't forget to return the df (`return df`) If you don't return it, ltmdf will ignore the save method

### Limitations
You cannot add rows to the df, only columns

## ltmdf.Environment
Designed for creating an environment for a larger than memory class

## Todo:

 - [x] ~~Add padding to file~~
 - [x] ~~Run pandas methods on DF~~
 - [x] ~~Load and Save DF~~
 - [ ] Zip DF

Commit message:

Update README for Loading and Saving
 - Made all occurences of DF in readme captial
 - Added Example III to the readme
 - Updated TODO

README.md, after:




# LTMDF

A python module to create larger than memory data frames for **pandas**, written in **Cython** for optimal performance.

(**L**arger **T**han **M**emory **D**ata **F**rame)

## ltmdf.DataFrame

### Example I: Reading Csv
```python
with ltmdf.DataFrame() as df:
	df.from_csv("Long_Csv.txt", 1000000, ["time", "Value"])
	df.add_padding(2)
```
##### from_csv(path, chunk_len, columns, **kwargs)
 1. `"Long_Csv.txt"` Csv File
 2. `1000000` Rows per chunk
 3. `["time", "value"]` Column names
 4. `**kwargs` Kwargs to pass to the pandas read function
 ##### add_padding(...)

 1. `2` How many rows of padding

Creates an environment in the run location, to store the larger than memory Dataframe. After that functions can be run on the entire DF

### Why to use Padding
To avoid NaN when using e.g. `diff` add padding to a DF. It adds the next rows of the df and ignores these after processing

### Example II: Running commands on a DF
```python
def get_delta_time(df):
	df["delta time"] = df["time"].diff()
	return df

with ltmdf.DataFrame() as df:
	(...)
	df.add_padding(1)
	df.run(get_delta_time, log_progess=True)
```
##### run(func, log_progess=False, *args, **kwargs)
`get_delta_time` Function with a minimum of 1 parameter (the DF) that gets called for each chunk of the large DF
`log_progess=True` Prints the current progess (e.g. 20/45)
`*args` Args to pass to function
`**kwargs` Kwargs to pass to function

Run a function on the DF.

### Warning
If you have made changes to the DF in the run method (e.g. `get_delta_time`) don't forget to return the DF (`return df`) If you don't return it, ltmdf will ignore the save method. (-> faster)

### Example III: Preserving and Zip - ing DFs
```python
with ltmdf.DataFrame("MyDf", preserved=True, zipped=True) as df:
	(...)

with ltmdf.DataFrame("MyDf.zip", load_env=True) as df:
	(...)
```
##### ltmdf.DataFrame(name, **env_arguments)
`"MyDf"` the name of the DF
`preserved=True` the DF will not be destroyed after completion
`zipped=True` the DF will be zipped to minimize memory consumption

`load_env=True` this DF will be loaded from a file

When `load_env` is set to True, the DF will be loaded from an existing DF with the name of this DF (e.g. `"MyDf.zip"`)

### Limitations
You cannot add rows to the DF , only columns

## ltmdf.Environment
Designed for creating an environment for a larger than memory class

## Todo:

 - [x] ~~Add padding to file~~
 - [x] ~~Run pandas methods on DF~~
 - [x] ~~Load and Save DF~~
 - [x] ~~Zip DF~~
 - [ ] Sum method
